---
slug: git
title: Why you need to learn git ASAP
authors:
  - name: Matt Herzog
    title: Why you need to learn git ASAP
    url: https://github.com/JoelMarcey
    image_url: https://github.com/mherzog4.png
tags: [git, github]
---

“It’s really complex to make something simple” - Jack Dorsey

Intro:

Git is an essential workflow tool for all developers and is something you will come across every day.

So, what is git?

Git is a system that tracks changes to your files over time.

With git, you can take a snapshot of your file and you can check out previous '“photos” of your file.

Git is most popular for managing large projects and working in parallel with other people on your development team.

Double Click into git:

Git is also known as a version control system.

From the git docs - Version Control is a system that records changes to a file or set of files over time so you can recall specific versions later.

Version control enables you to revert to a previously saved snapshot, compare snapshots, and even see who last modified a snapshot of your file.

But, git doesn’t just take a snapshot of your file.

Within git, there is another system called a Distributed Version Control System where along with taking the snapshot of your file, the system fully mirrors your repository and its full history of snapshots.

This means if any server dies and these systems were communicating with that server, all of your snapshots can be copied back and restored.

Here is a video sharing the basic ideas of version control and the motivations for using it:


Basic git commands:

Within git, there is a long list of commands you can run, but in this post, I will cover the 4 most important ones.

git status

git init

git add

git commit

git status:

This command will show you if you are properly tracking your files with git.


If you come across any error messages, that most likely means that you haven’t initialized any files to be tracked or haven’t committed your most recent changes.

You will be able to initialize your code with the next command.

You want to run this command periodically to make sure that everything is being tracked in your workflow.

git init:

This command will fire up git and tells it to make sure to watch over your files.


git add:

This command adds the files that you want to be tracked by git.

If you run the git status command now after adding your files, you will see a message pop up that indeed, your files are now being tracked by git.


Lastly, we want to make sure that once you make changes, you are able to take a snapshot of the progress you have made.

Here is where git commit comes into the picture.

git commit:

Git commit will take that snapshot of your code, with the ability to revert to that snapshot if you needed to go back.


Closing thoughts:

Git is an essential workflow tool for all developers and is something you will come across every day.

Take the time to learn the fundamentals and “git” good at git.

✓
extra resources:

Here is a PDF visualizing the git workflow

If you are intimidated by running these commands on the command line interface, GitKraken is an excellent free tool that allows you to visualize your git workflow.




<hr></hr>


<a href="https://calendly.com/mattherzog/business-chat" target="_blank"><b><u>Hire me</u></b></a>
<br></br>
<br></br>