---
slug: big0notation
title: Exploring Big 0 Notaion
authors:
  - name: Matt Herzog
    title: Software Engineer
    url: https://linkedin.com/mattherzog3
    image_url: https://github.com/mherzog4.png
tags: [Big 0 Notation, Algorithms, Data Structures, Interview Prep]
---

In today’s issue, I’m going to share an intro to Big O Notation and cover 3 essential concepts you need to have a handle on while prepping for technical interviews.

What is Big O Notation?
Big O Notation is a way to describe the efficiency of algorithms.

It allows us to talk formally about how the runtime of an algorithm grows as the inputs grow.

We won't care about the details, only the trends.

We can describe our algorithms in three different ways:

Best case

Worst case

Expected case

(We usually just talk about the worst case)


Simplifying Big O Expressions
When determining the time complexity of an algorithm, there are some guiding principles for big O expressions.

Constants don’t matter
O(2n) → O(n)

O(500) → O(1)

O(13n^2) → O(n^2)

Smaller Terms don’t matter
O(n + 10) → O(n)

O(1000n + 50) → O(n)

O(n^2 + 5n +8) → O(n^2)

Time Complexity
We say that an algorithm is O(f(n)) if the number of simple operations the computer has to do is eventually less than a constant times f(n), as n increases

f(n) could be linear (f(n) = n)

f(n) could be quadratic (f(n) = n^2)

f(n) could be constant (f(n) = 1)

f(n) could be something entirely different!

Space Complexity
So far, we've been focusing on time complexity: how can we analyze the runtime of an algorithm as the size of the inputs increases?

We can also use big O notation to analyze space complexity: how much additional memory do we need to allocate in order to run the code in our algorithm?

Most primitives (booleans, numbers, undefined, null) are constant space

Strings require O(n) space (where n is the string length)

Reference types are generally O( n), where n is the length (for arrays) or the number of keys (for objects)

Space complexity is a parallel concept to time complexity - if we need to create an array of size n, this will require O(n) space.

Logarithms
We've encountered some of the most common complexities: O(1), O(n), O(n^2)

Sometimes big O expressions involve more complex mathematical expressions

One that appears more often than you might like is the logarithm!

The logarithm of a number roughly measures the number of times you can divide that number by 2 before you get a value that's less than or equal to one.


Recap
To analyze the performance of an algorithm, we use Big O Notation

Big O Notation can give us a high-level understanding of the time or space complexity of an algorithm

Big O Notation doesn't care about precision, only about general trends (linear? quadratic? constant?)

The time or space complexity (as measured by Big O) depends only on the algorithm, not the machine used to run the algorithm




<hr></hr>

<a href="https://calendly.com/mattherzog/quick-chat" target="_blank"><b><u>Let's chat</u></b></a>
<br></br>
<br></br>
<a href="https://directsystems.io/" target="_blank"><b><u>Hire me</u></b></a>