---
slug: react
title: 3 Questions to answer about React
authors:
  - name: Matt Herzog
    title: Software Engineer
    url: https://linkedin.com/mattherzog3
    image_url: https://github.com/mherzog4.png
tags: [react, jsx]
---
“Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite and reuse” - Eric S. Raymond.

Recently, I made a post scratching the surface of React.


Andy Wong made a comment on my post and challenged me to answer a couple of questions regarding React.


So I made this blog post to answer the questions.

For some context, Andy is a software engineering bootcamp graduate and has worked at amazing companies like Wayfair, Amazon, Google, and now Block.


Question 1:
Why is declarative important, and how does it compare to the other major programming methodology, imperative?

Answer:
To write declarative code is to write what you would like to do.

To write imperative code is to write code that describes how something is done in detail.

To further explain, imagine you walk into a local pizza shop with the intention of ordering a slice of a cheese pizza.

To order declaratively would be to say something like this: "I would like one slice of cheese pizza." Rather than worry about the details, you are just saying what you want and letting the restaurant staff handle the details.

To order imperatively would mean saying something like this instead: "I would like you to go grab some dough, toss the dough into a circle, preheat the oven, grab the cheese, put cheese on the dough, put the dough covered in cheese in the oven, wait 18 minutes, take the pizza out of the oven and place it on the counter, wait for the pizza to cool off, cut the pizza into even slices, grab one slice, put the slice on a paper plate, and hand me the paper plate.”

In general, the declarative approach is preferred unless we are instructing someone else to do something extremely specific.

Question 2:
Why is JSX useful, what is the alternative, and are there any pros/cons to using one vs. the other?

Answer:
JSX is a syntax extension of JavaScript that creates a combination between HTML and JavaScript.

JSX looks like the end result we see in the browser and is much faster to write compared to creating DOM elements every time you want to implement dynamic content.

JSX isn’t required in React, but most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code.

In the example below, we declare a variable called name and then use it inside JSX by wrapping it in curly braces:

const name = 'Matt Herzog';
const element = <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>;
// Hello, Matt Herzog
Question 3:
Why is React considered a library, not a framework and why is that distinction important?

Answer:
React is technically a library, not a framework.

Some developers like to refer to frameworks or similar solutions as having "batteries included”, while React relies on using a combination of dependencies.

Angular and Vue, by comparison, include many more tools all bundled within the core package itself.

Since React is a library and not a framework, you're able to make your own decisions, and you're able to have more freedom overall.

That being said, becoming a skilled React developer involves having a good knowledge of third-party React libraries

There is a great ecosystem of React-focused libraries that you can add to your React project to achieve whatever you're looking for.

Closing thoughts:
This deep dive exercise was extremely helpful in building out my understanding of React.

I am grateful to be a part of a community where people like Andy lend their expertise and their mental models to junior developers like me.


<a href="https://calendly.com/mattherzog/business-chat" target="_blank"><b><u>Hire me</u></b></a>
<br></br>
<br></br>
<a href="mailto:matt@mattherzog.me" target="_blank"><b><u>Send me a message</u></b></a>

