---
slug: How to Open Source like a pro
title: How to Open Source like a pro
authors:
  - name: Matt Herzog
    title: Software Engineer
    url: https://linkedin.com/mattherzog3
    image_url: https://github.com/mherzog4.png
tags: [Open Source, Career, Git, Github]
---
**Issue #9: Becoming an Open Source Software Pro** Nov 13, 2022


Agenda:

- What is Open Source Software
- The benefits of Open Source Software
- How to contribute to Open Source Software
- Why you should consider contributing to Open Source projects
- What is Hacktoberfest
- My plan for contributing to open source projects

Let’s jump in.

# The World of Open Source Software

## What is Open Source Software

Open source software is software with code that anyone can look at or modify.

Some software has source code that only the person, team, or organization who created it maintains exclusive control.

People call this kind of software "proprietary" or "closed source" software.

Open source software is different, its authors make the source code available to others who would like to view that code, copy it, learn from it, alter it, or share it.

## The Benefits of Open Source Software

**Control:**

Some people prefer open source software because of the control they have over that kind of software.

People can examine the code to make sure it's not doing anything they don't want it to do, and they can change parts of it they don't like.

**Training:**

Because open source code is publicly accessible, people can easily study it as they learn to make better software.

This helps them become better programmers.

When people discover mistakes in programs' source code, they can share those mistakes with others to help them avoid making those same mistakes themselves.

**Security:**

Since anyone can view and modify open source software, someone might spot and correct errors that the original authors might have missed and upgrade open source software more quickly than they can proprietary software.

**Community:**

Open source software often inspires a community of users and developers to form around it.

The community isn't just a fanbase; it's the people who produce, test, use, promote, and ultimately affect the software they love.

The community is arguably the biggest benefit of open source projects.

## How to contribute to your first Open Source Software project

I am making the assumption in this next section you are familiar with a few things:

- Github
- Git command workflows

### How to write the perfect pull request

Include the purpose of your Pull Request.

For example:

This simplifies the display of...
​
This fixes the handling of...
Consider providing an overview of why the work is taking place (with any relevant links); don’t assume familiarity with the history.

Remember that anyone in the company could be reading this Pull Request, so the content and tone may inform people other than those taking part, now or later.

Be explicit about what feedback you want, if any: a quick pair of eyes on the code, discussion on the technical approach, critique on design, a review of copy.

@mention individuals or teams that you specifically want to involve in the discussion, and mention why.

### How to write a good commit message

**Type:**

A new feature fix, a bug fix, changes in documentation style, everything related to styling refactor, code changes that neither fixes a bug or adds a feature test, everything related to testing chore, updating build tasks, package manager configs, etc
​

**Subject:**

This contains a short description of the changes made.

It should begin with a capital letter and written in the imperative eg. Add instead of Added or Adds.
​

**Body:**

The body is used to explain what changes you made and why you made them.

Not all commits are complex enough that they need a body, especially if you are working on a personal project alone, and as such writing a body is optional.

## Why you should consider contributing to open source projects

Contributing to open source can be a rewarding way to learn, teach, and build experience in just about any skill you can imagine.

Here are some reasons to contribute to start contributing to open source projects:

Improve software you rely on
Lots of open source contributors start by being users of software they contribute to.

When you find a bug in an open source software you use, you may want to look at the source to see if you can patch it yourself.

If that’s the case, then contributing the patch back is the best way to ensure that your friends (and yourself when you update to the next release) will be able to benefit from it.

Improve existing skills
Whether it’s coding, user interface design, graphic design, writing, or organizing, if you’re looking for practice, there’s a task for you on an open source project.

Find mentors and teach others
Working with others on a shared project means you’ll have to explain how you do things, as well as ask other people for help.

The acts of learning and teaching can be a fulfilling activity for everyone involved.

Build public artifacts that help you grow a reputation
All of your open source work is public, which means you have a showcase to demonstrate what you can do.

Learn people skills
Open source offers opportunities to practice leadership and management skills, such as resolving conflicts, organizing teams of people, and prioritizing work.

## What is Hacktoberfest

There are many ways to get involved with the open source community, but one of the most popular ways is to participate in Hacktoberfest.

Hacktoberfest is a month long celebration of open source software that takes place every year in the month of October.

Hacktoberfest is beginner friendly and a great way to get your first experience contributing to open source projects.

Hacktoberfest provides incentives for you to contribute - once you have 4 pull/merge requests accepted, you can can elect to receive one of two prizes: a tree planted in your name, or the Hacktoberfest t-shirt.

## My plan for contributing to open source projects

Given all of the benefits that contributing to open source projects has to offer, it is a no brainer to get involved.

I see this opportunity essential as a software engineer bootcamp graduate to prove to employers that you can solve problems in a collaborative environment that simulates real world experiences.

# Action Items:
- Search Github for a project to contribute to
- Look up popular open source projects
- Mark your calendar for next October to participate in Hacktoberfest 2023


<hr></hr>

<a href="https://calendly.com/mattherzog/business-chat" target="_blank"><b><u>Hire me</u></b></a>
<br></br>
<br></br>
<a href="mailto:matt@mattherzog.me" target="_blank"><b><u>Send me a message</u></b></a>
