---
slug: React Query
title: Intro to React Query
authors:
  - name: Matt Herzog
    title: Software Engineer
    url: https://linkedin.com/mattherzog3
    image_url: https://github.com/mherzog4.png
tags: [React, React Query]
---

**Issue #10: React Query Intro** Nov 20, 2022

Agenda:

- What is React Query
- The benefits of React Query
- What else React Query can do

Let’s jump in.

# What is React Query
React Query is often described as the missing data-fetching library for React.

It simplifies the way you fetch, cache, and synchronize data from a server in your React application.

But what does that really mean?

Since React doesn't have an opinionated way to fetch data out of the box, you can use the most basic approach and use the browser fetch api when a component first mounts and useEffect and manage the response with useState.

This type of design pattern can grow in complexity as your application grows, resulting in spaghetti code🍝.

With React Query you have the ability to combat your app's server state in much less code than it would take otherwise.

On a more technical note, React Query will likely:

- Help you remove lines of complicated code and replace them with just a handful of lines

- Make your application more maintainable and easier to build new features without worrying about wiring up new server state data sources

# The Benefits of React Query

## Declarative & Automatic

- Similar to React itself, you can tell where to get your data and how fresh you need it to be and the rest is automatic.

- Right out of the box and with zero configuration, React Query can handle caching, background updates and stale data.

## Simple & Familiar
- Simply pass a function with async/await that resolves your data and the rest is history.
Extensible

- React Query comes with dedicated devtools, infinite-loading APIs, and first class mutation tools that make updating your data a breeze.

# What else can React Query Do?
With zero dependencies, React Query is extremely lean given the dense feature set it provides.

Here is a list from the docs of what the library has to offer.

- Backend agnostic
- Dedicated Devtools
- Auto Caching
- Auto Refetching
- Window Focus Refetching
- Polling/Realtime Queries
- Parallel Queries
- Dependent Queries
- Mutations API
- Automatic Garbage Collection
- Paginated/Cursor Queries
- Load-More/Infinite Scroll Queries
- Scroll Recovery
- Request Cancellation
- Suspense Ready!
- Render-as-you-fetch
- Prefetching
- Variable-length Parallel Queries
- Offline Support
- SSR Support
- Data Selectors

With all of these features built into one library, React Query could eliminate your need for a global state management solution like Redux.

# Action Items:
- Try to fetch data with React Query today
- Check out the official React Query Course​
- Reply back with a topic you'd want me to cover!

<hr></hr>

<a href="https://calendly.com/mattherzog/business-chat" target="_blank"><b><u>Hire me</u></b></a>
<br></br>
<br></br>
<a href="mailto:matt@mattherzog.me" target="_blank"><b><u>Send me a message</u></b></a>
