---
slug: Next 13
title: Next.js Conference 2022
authors:
  - name: Matt Herzog
    title: Software Engineer
    url: https://linkedin.com/mattherzog3
    image_url: https://github.com/mherzog4.png
tags: [Next, React,]
---
**Issue #07: Rundown of 3 huge additions added to Next.js 13**Oct 28, 2022

Agenda:

What is Next.js?

What was introduced at the Next.js Conference?


Let’s jump in.

# What is a Next.js?

Next.js is a framework that is built on top of the popular library, React.

With Next, you have built-in features like:

* An intuitive page-based routing system (with support for dynamic routes)

* Pre-rendering, both static generation (SSG) and server-side rendering (SSR) are supported on a per-page basis

* Automatic code splitting for faster page loads

* Client-side routing with optimized prefetching

* Built-in CSS and Sass support, and support for any CSS-in-JS library

* Development environment with Fast Refresh support

* API routes to build API endpoints with Serverless Functions

* Fully extendable

By using Next, you will be in good hands.

Some of the top companies in the worlds like Netflix are using Netflix in their production code environment.

# What was introduced at the Next.js conference?


So what was the big deal about the Next conference?

first, the Next team revealed Turbopack

Using the Turbopack alpha with Next.js 13 results in:

* 700x faster updates than Webpack
* 10x faster updates than Vite
* 4x faster cold starts than Webpack

Turbopack is aimed to be the webpack successor to Webpack.

Second, the team layed out a new way for nested routing with the addition of the app directory.

The new router includes support for:

* Layouts: Easily share UI between routes while preserving state and avoiding expensive re-renders.

* Server Components: Making server-first the default for the most dynamic applications.

* Streaming: Display instant loading states and stream in units of UI as they are rendered.

* Support for Data Fetching: async Server Components and extended fetch API enables component-level fetching.

Lastly, another addition to Next is how the framework will do data fetching.

Now, the framework provides a powerful new way to fetch data and handle promises inside components:

In the app directory, you can fetch data inside layouts, pages, and components – including support for streaming responses from the server.

# Closing thoughts

Next looks very cool and I can't wait to build projects with the framework.

I think it will take a while for Turbopack to become a webpack successor due to Webpack's robust plugin ecosystem, but the build tool looks and feels very fast.

<hr></hr>

<a href="https://calendly.com/mattherzog/business-chat" target="_blank"><b><u>Hire me</u></b></a>
<br></br>
<br></br>
<a href="mailto:matt@mattherzog.me" target="_blank"><b><u>Send me a message</u></b></a>
